Mule up in the mountains where there's artillery,
mortar fire, and small arms fire. If a shell hits
nearby, a horse will jump over the side of the
mountain. Just anyway. Because it's startled and
scared and out of control. A mule will actually
react like a human being. It'll go down. You know,
scrunch down. Another thing about a mule, After
you've delivered your load up on the mountain, you
just take the line, tie it up on the pack saddle,
slap it on the rear, and it'll go back to where it was
fed the night before. You do that to a horse, he may
go towards the enemy line.
Some horses might go back, but most of them, you
have to lead them up and lead them back. Mules are
soon found to be the most dependent. And so,
because C-rations can, they're bad enough, but at
least they're... Because we only had three
different menus. They were heavier. So that's the
reason why they got those little cans. They never
got any hot meals. Not while we were up on the
mountain. When we got down. Because they had those
big, what you call them, marmite cans. And even one
man had a different kind of those things. But
water. But you're not very hungry anyway. But I say
living like that. Yeah. cold and wet, just
miserable. And you were eager to get out of it.
Yeah, of course, France and Germany, you've got
houses and basements.
Not only that, but then you're conducting combat
or war as you have been trained the way it should be.
Sure, and not up on Devil Amon. That's right. And
you make a reconnaissance, you plan your
artillery, your mortar, your maneuver, and then
you go off And you take prisoners. You don't suffer
so many casualties. And those that you do, you can
immediately evacuate them, even without
helicopters. Now, what was your role in the
invasion of southern France? I was battalion
commander then, major in the battalion command. I
got promoted or given a battalion after that Monte
Cassino battle up on top of the mountain. See, once
again, I've been fortunate. I survived. I get
wounded later on in France, but it's a minor wound.
But there weren't many around me that started out
when we went into southern France. That started
out when you were in Italy? Yeah. Because they'd
either been wounded or killed. And were you in the
first assault? Or would you explain? In southern
France. Southern France invasion. Yeah, but
that... Salerno, I say it was a fight. Yeah. But we
got in there. Once again, fortunate. We went in in
the assault in the beach. And where we went in,
there wasn't any resistance, except, of course,
they had barriers all in the water. But it was a
beautiful beach, and it was quiet. Because the
Germans were down lower, protecting an airfield.
So we went in with no artillery preparation or
anything like that. Because the French are living
all around. And it's a good thing we didn't. So we
were able to get in. And there was no fighting. The
fighting came later on, because the Germans'
defensive plan was to counterattack. Of course,
that was their plan. an invasion of a channel. They
must have had a screen out front, and they would
have countered that. Well, here, they didn't even
have a screen where we were. So where we hit was an
unopposed invasion. Where others hit was a pretty
good fire. But later on, they put an airstrike on us
and hit two or three of the boats, including an
ammunition boat, where it's at the main. But we
were welcome there in France, at best. And as soon
as you got ashore, what'd you do? Move inland. You
just moved inland as fast as possible? Yeah. Went
on, cleared the beach. Then they unloaded all of
our equipment, vehicles, according to the plan.
Then they went ahead and rendezvoused us up. And
then we moved around. And were any of the French
right down on the beach? No. We surprised
everybody. People were asleep because it was
early in the morning. We went all around. We got our
vehicles, wheels, all around and got in one of the
toughest battles that we had in France or later on
in Germany.
And this was written up. It was up in the Rhone
Valley. Oh, that one. This was written up by Wick
Fowler and two or three others about this. You see,
in addition to us landing in southern France, the
3rd Division landed. So we were able, and this,
once again, was pretty well planned, not by me, but
to hire up, where we landed there on this narrow
beach, unopposed, went on around and got around
and got on the high ground of the Rhone Valley, and
the 3rd Division was pushing the Germans. They had
a lot of force in southern France, a lot of tanks.
And so they were having a pretty good battle. So we
tried to block to the north.
Monte Lemire, I think is the name of that place. And
that was my battalion. We were on the high ground.
The road goes, the main road's here, and then
there's another parallel road. And it's
mountains up here, mountains over there. And we
were in a small mountain high in the middle. In
between the two roads, a road on each side, and you
were sort of on a hill. Yeah, so here come the
Germans, see. Down the road? They're coming all
over the place. They're retreating, but not
running, see. The tank was a whole lot. Just
walking by a strategic retreat? Yeah. But one of
the problems they had, they could go no faster than
that. They had a lot of horse drones. artillery
equipment. I guess they put them down in southern
France rather than elsewhere because they
thought it would be relatively safe and could use
them, particularly to put the guns in position.
But they were retreating. Fortunately, we were
dug in on top of them. We relieved another unit, so
they had some holes dug, so that gave us an
advantage just to improve the holes that were
already there. And I put my CP in a Fortunately, not
in the house, a real nice house, but in a potato bin
that was L-shaped. So you're going this way and
this way. So even shell fires can't get in this back
part here. So it all started. And they were
attacking. And knowing that we were in holes, and I
wasn't in the potato bin at the time,
I called for artillery down in our own position
because the Germans were all over the place. Just
horseback, tanks, trucks, and just, boy, just a
nightmare. Just like one of these Fourth of July
type of fireworks, you know, except this was on the
ground, right? That's the only communication I
had with our artillery liaison.
So could you get some gunfire support? Yeah, they
did. So we got our tour, brought it down to our own
position. And, you know, I used to hear horses. You
know, when they'd get hit, we'd hear others
turning over. And
I was there at the entrance there trying to watch
and see what was going on, trying to keep some kind
of control. Because we had communication with our
own people. At least initially we had telephone
and also radio. We were company commanders. My
exec was down in the low ground where our roadblock
was, which didn't last long because the Germans
soon knocked that out, overran it. I mean, they're
frantic, man. So I'm out in front, and I usually
tell anybody about my wound. I had a hero's wound.
That means I got hit in the back during all of this
sort. And I didn't even realize it at the time. A
lieutenant was there. Were you in the command post
at this time? Well, out in the front. Oh, okay, out
in front. Trying to direct your soldiers? Trying
to keep some kind of control, seeing what was going
on. So the lieutenant who was there, he was
controlling his mortar, our heavy weapons
company, the 81mm mortars. He was there. And he got
hit with a fragment because the Germans... were
then, they were fighting us trying to get them in
all this.
And just a small fragment, all at once he keeled
over, like we didn't know what happened to him. We
just thought he had fallen over. And finally, we
lifted the artillery and it was all quiet. All you
could hear was some of those horses moaning and
groaning and went out. And we had Germans
scattered all over the place. Well, what, torn all
up, torn over? Horses with their belly, bowels
hanging out.
So the unit got a presidential citation for that
particular action. In my room, I say I didn't even
know it because I had a pistol belt and then the web
belt on my thing. And he went through in the back,
through the pistol belt, through the web belt, and
just penetrated. You were lucky. Enough to where
it was bleeding. But I didn't even know that until
they said, you better go have that looked at
because I'm There's quite a bit of blood coming.
And I went to the aid station over there. You were
really lucky to get that belt on. Small fragments,
you know. And we had very few casualties. I really
thought, this is going to be so sickening because I
know what I've done. I've killed all of my own
people, you know, trying to hold this position
here. But it turned out very few casualties. And I
don't think we had any dead. They just got down in
their foxholes and let the gunfire support do the
job? Yeah. So basically it was the artillery that
won the battle? Yeah. That's what I would say,
because we were in no position to do anything
except to stay put.
And we took a lot of prisoners. A lot of wounded
prisoners. We had troops on the high ground up, so
they were trying to get out of there, I said.
including a general. In fact, I had his pistol. I
don't have it anymore because I gave it to a
youngster when we were stationed up in
Washington.
Of course, the Germans got through some of them.
But he was the general in command? Yeah. And you
captured him? Yeah. Was he a one-star general or a
two-star? Two-star general. I think he's
equivalent of our division commander.
I'm kidding.
He was surprised how few troops we had. Did he speak
English? Yeah. You can't really tell artillery
sometimes which way it's coming when it's hit. Of
course, you can hear the bump over there, but when
you're hearing just all this going at the same
time, you can't hear the bump in the distance. It's
only by the splash can you tell which direction
it's coming from.
Was that about the only major confrontation that
you had? Because the southern invasion went
rather quickly. Well, yeah. Of course, this is
where the This was the first contact we had in
southern France, but this is moving on. But later
on we had a lot more, especially around the Rhine
Valley. And were you at this time under, were you
put under the Third Army with that? No, we were
under, when we left Clark's Fifth Army, we were
under Seventh Army. in southern France, and then
we were part of the French First Army for a while. No
kidding. Part of the French First Free Forces?
Yeah. And who was in charge of that, Leclerc? I
think so. I never did. See, I'm only a battalion
commander. Sure, but how'd you get along? Did you
work right in unison with the French troops? Well,
we had French troops on our flank next to us. How was
the cooperation between the free French and the
Americans? Okay, but we didn't find as many French
as speak English. We found Germans and it seemed
like they were the average German spoke. They were
just higher ranking. No, I had a very unfortunate
situation working with the French. Oh, is that? It
was unfortunate for the French.
Well, I'll skip all of the action. We had a lot of it.
We went into... Well,
I might tell you another one that involves the
442nd Combat Team. You remember the
Japanese-Americans? Yeah. In fact, last year we
had a reunion. I didn't attend it. It was the 442nd
with the 36th Division in Dallas. And they hauled
in all sorts of flowers and fruit, you know, for the
occasion. But you know that part of these 442nd
people came from these relocation camps.
Absolutely. And left their mothers and fathers
and sisters there. And then, of course, they came
from Hawaii also. They were attached to the 36th
after we had gone up out of the Rhone Valley around
three years. And my battalion was in reserve. And
General Dahlquist,
the commanding general, called for me. He says, I
know you've just been out of the line. It's time for
your battalion to rest. But he said, we've got a
problem. We've got a lost battalion. A battalion
of 141st had advanced and got cut off. And he says, I
want you to take your battalion been attacked to
get to them so we can get them out of there. So of
course I said, yes sir, and I went to get the
battalion alerted and moving. And fortunately
for me, this is another one of these lucky breaks,
fate or whatever. By the time I got back to the
battalion, of course they alerted them, they were
all getting ready to move out. I get a telephone
call that says, just disregard the orders. We've
decided it's too big a job for battalions. It's
going to take at least a regiment. So we're going to
use a full 42nd combat team, which they did. And
they fought for several days. They took
tremendous casualties. And they got to them and
got them out at a very high price. My battalion
would never have been able to do what I've done. got
decimated and still had to have somebody to help
him. Did you meet any of these Japanese American
troops? I did then. I don't remember now. I don't
remember, for example, what's his name? How'd
they impress you? The one who's got the arm of, you
know, a member of Congress. Oh, for me. Super. Of
course, they had a Not only they, just like all
Japanese, tremendous fighters and courageous,
but they had a point to prove. That they were just as
patriotic, or better, more patriotic and better
fighters than the non-Japanese. Never
complained.
But that was terrible that they hadn't had such a
licking because, see, you didn't have
replacements. You know, when they took ahead a
casualty list, they didn't readily have
replacements. It takes a long time. So they used up
their capability, their present capability, in
just a few days. But while they're getting ready to
preach, I haven't performed with them. We're
still part of the 1st Preach Army, the 36th. We went
to... into the Rhone Valley, just below
Strasbourg. And the Germans had counterattacked
it earlier, and they had a riverhead north and one
south of Strasbourg. So the mission of my
battalion was to eliminate
that element of Germans south of Strasbourg. And
then we'd been fighting longer than any other day.
I think we'd been in contact with enemy a hundred
and something days, ever since southern France.
And we were still in good shape, though, because
they hadn't had cagers, fortunately, since the
442nd took our cagers.
So they said, well, we don't have any tanks. They
said, we'll attach a platoon of French tanks. So
here they came around just before we attacked
them. They didn't speak English. Nobody spoke
French until I thought, gee, my striker or aide,
he's from Louisiana, he speaks French. Well, he
spoke Cajun French, you know. So he came up and He
says they understood him, but I'm not sure they
did. So we planned an attack, see. We were going to
attack with two companies here. And I was going to
send another company around here. And I told those
tanks, do not, the commander there, do not go into
this village until my infantry is there so they can
go with you, support you. And Geetri, that's his
name. This is probably his son who pitches for
them, a grandson who pitches for the New York
Yankees. Same, of course, Geetri's like Smith. So
Geetri, I said, are you sure they understand that?
He said, well, I'll repeat it. And he went through
the same thing. Give this company time to get there
before you go into the village. They all
understood it. So, okay, we had it all set at the
time, and we got ready to go. Had an artillery
preparation, and attacked. What did those French
tanks do? They went right around there by
themselves and went right on into the village, and
all four of them got knocked out with bazookas,
Germans. The Germans called them Panzerfaust,
not bazookas. All four tanks. Why do you think they
did that? They didn't understand, I guess.
Or maybe they thought they could take the village
by themselves, but we knew the Germans then,
because those Panzerfausts, boy, they had
deadly. You know, you got somebody in an upstair
window, you point that thing down there, anywhere
on top of a tank, vulnerable, especially over the
engine.
Then we got in the village, and we didn't take the
village. What village was that? Do you remember? I
don't remember. I had to look at the map. I thought
about this.
Then I got orders about 10 o'clock at night. Since
we hadn't cleared the village by that time, pull
out, because we were going out of the line. We
really didn't go out of the line. We went to a less
active position. They were going to give you a
little bit of rest and put a new division up there.
Yeah. Third division this time was going to
replace us there. They had a little easier time.
So the situation was like fighting with a tiger,
you know, and they say, let that tiger eat you. I
said, how am I going to get out of this village? It's
night. I've got one platoon that's surrounded,
almost surrounded. I'm going to have a heck of a
time disengaging because the Germans don't want
to disengage. We got into their village, and they
want to get revenge and get us out. Well, I said, do
the best you can, but be sure you're out by 12
o'clock. So we had to leave those French tank. I
think they got most of the wounded out of there. And
that platoon that was almost cut off was able to, to
get out and cover darkness. Now, you learn a lot of
things in wartime, but I learned a lesson in the
Strasburg. We were to occupy an island. If you've
ever been to Strasburg, there's an island in the
Rhine. And Strasburg is a port. And there's a whole
row of warehouses for the river traffic,
commercial traffic. And our mission was to
occupy, defend. Strasburg, too, was an open city
in itself. Now, the island all around each side,
that wasn't considered open. So we moved in, and it
was quiet. And we stayed there. And what I noticed
as we went in there, there was a tower to the
entrance to the harbor. And the big tower clock had
been shut out. And the warehouses, of course
you're taking a look at it, had been looted, at
least broken into. Most of the valuable cargo
had been taken. But everything was fine. And so the
Burgermeister had been down to see me. I said,
how's everything? He said, everything's fine.
Yes, it's quiet. His troops have been very
orderly. No problem. And we were ordered out. And I
don't remember who replaced
us. And we were on up, engaged again heavily along
the Rhine River. This time we were providing the
infantry troops for armor division. And the
Inspector General came up, and there I was, you
know, tired and sweating out all of this and trying
to conduct the operation. He said, I hate to bother
you, but I've got a very important subject to
discuss with you. I said, yeah. He said, yes, have
you got $2 million? I said, no, I haven't got 15
cents. What are you getting at? He said, well, for
your information, the Burgermeister of
Sprossburg has submitted a claim against the
American U.S. Army for $2 million for knocking out
that clock and all that cargo that was in the
warehouse that was stolen. I said, well, you're
talking to the wrong person. Because it was out
when we got there, both the clock and the cargo. He
said, well, it couldn't have been. I said, well,
why couldn't it have been? Maybe the 3rd Division
got it. He said, no. The 3rd Division had the clean
bill of health. When they left, they had the
burglar master to sign that everything is just as
they found it and nothing has been destroyed. And
he said, don't worry about it because I'm sure that
we can work this out. I know that you're telling the
truth, but if I have this paperwork, I've got to run
down. What had happened is The French, the first
French army, they had liberated Strasbourg. They
shot out the clock, and they hauled off, because
they had a lot of chalk candy and things like that,
you know, to wear out that car. They hauled all of
that on. But the French didn't want to, you know,
say the French did it. and I guess they figured that
Uncle Sugar was coming along, and we might have
paid for it. I never heard of it since. But that's
what could happen. I mean, when you went into a
German town and occupied it, you would have to sign
chits saying that you had, you know, and have the
Burgermeister sign them saying that you had not
stolen any property. That's the only time I ever
heard of that, but Strasburg is a situation that,
What's different? There have been very, and I'm
sure that the 3rd Division was smart enough to know
that. You know, it's an open city, and if the
Germans haven't tore things up, and we certainly
don't want to be accused of sometimes soldiers,
you know. Oh, yeah. They call it liberating. They
go out and go into a house or store or a building and
get a canvas or something else. So they had a clean
bill of health signed with the Bergen-Meister.
And I guess you can't blame him for not trying to get
reimbursement for things, even in the middle of
the war. Was this during the time of the Battle of
the Bulge?
No. We're still in France. I was in Germany during
the Battle of the Bulge. We haven't crossed the
Rhine yet. Okay, so this is before... December of
1944. When is this?
I don't know. I should have gotten... Well, I don't
have my journals. That's right. I'll loan my
journals to a guy who's writing a book. I have
mostly journals.
Who's journals?
I can get his name. You've got that machine over
there. Vincent M. Lockhart. And he's writing a
book, A History of the 36th Division? In France and
Germany.
And was he in the division? Yeah. He was in the
headquarters, but he was with the division almost
the entire time. I left Texas with him and I came
home on the day. Except for being
in. OK. So rental. R&R I didn't miss a day with the 36
today.
Not one day. except going on that trip on and off. My
goodness. Okay, so this is right before the Battle
of the Bulge. What was the situation? Were you
involved with that battle
in December of 1940? Oh, in the Bulge. Or was that
too far north of you? Oh, yes, north of it. Yeah. Was
it too far north? Yeah. Because we went
We went into Germany at Wissenberg.
And that was through the secret line. And
that, too, was another example where rather than
decimate your troops on the frontal attack in the
lowland,
my battalion was sent through the mountain, where
we still had a pretty strong defense, but not like
it was down where it was designed, you know, for
anti-tank guns. And we were able to get through the
sacred line without very many casualties. But we
lost a tank going through and in the village, five
pounds or thousands on the second story, you know,
and fired it down on them. It was terrible because
they, It was a lieutenant in the tank, had the
turret open with his head out. It was a night, see,
so, and it was quiet. I see the panther's out there.
So he shot that thing down there and tore his head,
practically, off. Of course, he killed and missed
him. And knocked out the tank, and it went on down
there and set it to fire. Did it kill everybody in
the tank? I don't recall. I haven't thought about
these things in years. I can remember the
incident, and I can see that gory mass of
splattered brain and just the stem of his neck
sticking out. And they got his body out before the
tank really got to burn. And it was able to push the
tank, too, out of the street. It was a narrow
street, so the rest of the column got burned. But we
left it burning. So how many of the others were
killed or got out? I don't know.
Most of the tanks, you know, have an escape hatch at
the bottom that you can get in or out.
Now, what was the condition of the Siegfried line
when you approached it? Was it heavily damaged or
was it... in pretty good shape.
We put down a terrific artillery barrage on that
thing. And the mountains. Now, they had bunkers
and they were manned and with crossfire. But
nothing like down in the Rhine plain. Boy, that
was... Not only had bunkers, but they had big tank
ditches, you know. Mine and barbed wire. And, uh,
They were designed that neither man nor machine
could get through those things.
Up in the mountains, they had the bunkers. They had
protective wire around the bunkers where you
couldn't get close enough to lob hand grenades
under the portal.
But this just shows you how to protect the bunker.
They had defensive foxholes around the bunker
outside. So I imagine psychologically, they just
didn't feel like being sitting in there and
waiting for somebody with a flamethrower or
something to stick it through them. And that was
the reason why we had low casualties going through
that, because that artillery. There weren't many
Germans left. For some reason, either ordered to
leave or something. They weren't there. There
were some just for snipers who took prisoners.
Maybe they want to be taken care of. But we were
prepared for a really tough fight getting through
that city. Once again, luck comes to you without
having to do
anything. Then we went on to the Rhine River for the
crossing. And
we were getting ready to make a river crossing at
this ferry
landing. It was the bridge that was the ferry. And
so often in Germany there's a tavern on one side of
the river. This is on our side of the river. And it
was there just before daylight. It was cold, damp,
and we were all moving around, getting all set.
About that time, in that cavern. Let go of it. You
know one of these Germans where they played the
umpah and got drums, you know, the whole thing, a
player, piano type of thing. That thing started
running.
We got somebody to find out what the hell that is.
Some G.I. had been in there and somehow he had
tripped that thing where, you know, like any G.I.
looking around, what is this thing? He got it
started playing. But the Germans didn't resist
across the Rhine there. No kidding? They must have
been concentrated up north, huh? Yeah. And this
was a... You could have been slaughtered. This is
a...
And we got across there, and of course, they had a
big fight up in Remagen Bridgehead. That was a
great... Of course, that was up in industrial
parts down there. Yeah.
In fact, we claimed, Seventh Army claimed, we were
the first one to cross the Rhine. And I think the
same on the Remagen. And when you got... See, when
you're down on one end and you're fighting like
we're still in there, you really don't know what
the hell's going on.
I wasn't aware of any of the Battle of the Bulge
until later on. We felt the effects because they
picked up several Germans in American uniforms.
Oh, really?
Yeah. And they called them with a password. You
know, they'd figure out everything, like the
Germans being smart. But they can't master
baseball, for example. You know, you start asking
her about pictures and who did this. different
things like that. So these guys were sabotaged,
you were going to sabotage them? Yeah, I was part of
a whole system of those. We didn't know at the time,
all at once, we got the word to be very suspicious of
anybody going there. Germans dressed in American
uniforms, driving jeeps.
My battalion didn't capture any of them, but the
regiment did. Captured two jeep loads full of
these men. No kidding. They were the most
GI-looking characters you've ever seen.
They later admitted that they were German. They
wouldn't tell what their mission was if they were
German. They may have got more information if they
evacuated.
And then you continued your drive into Germany.
Yeah. And
we went across the Rhine at another place. And this
was down near Mannheim. And you know who was
directing traffic there at that crossing? It was a
ponton bridge, General Patton. No kidding. He was
out there directing traffic, because he was
trying to get the infantry unit across, because he
had an armor division that was coming. He wanted to
get them all cleared out. Of course, he was
dissatisfied with what the MPs were doing, I had
the
first experience I had with General Patton, the
only experience, except this, and I was just
passing by, was in the Louisiana Maneuvers. Oh,
yeah, he was down there. Yeah, he was testing.
Yeah, he was testing his... Well, it was the early
40s. Was it 1940? 1940. He commanded the armored
unit at Fort Bennett. And he, of course, being a
scholar all of his life on the professional
warrants and military leaders and tactics and
strategies, he knew about the German blitzkrieg
tactics of using panzers and infantry,
fast-moving infantry. In the past, you know, they
had tank units and they had infantry units, and
they both fought their own kind of war. Of course,
in World War II, they just had a very primitive
tank. And not many of them were not very
successful. World War I. Yeah, World War I. So he's
going to test this out during this maneuver. So the
143rd Infantry. of the Texas National Guard was
attached to his unit for this particular
operation. And so I reported to his headquarters
as liaison officer. And of course, you know
liaison officer, you're not one of the other
liaison officers. Your job is to keep abreast of
the situation as much as you can in that
headquarters without being truces to get in the
way being noticed too much. So you kind of slip
around and look and listen. And your main job, of
course, is to know where your unit is at all times.
Because that's the purpose of you being there. So
you expedite.
Those days we didn't have much communication.
Nothing like now with the radio and also telephone
wire. And Patton was in the headquarters? He was
there. Patton has a real high voice. You'd like for
him to be like old George Scott, you know, and
Patton, with that growling speech he made, you
know, up on the platform. But he had kind of a
high-pitched voice like that. And when he got
excited, it would go really high. Vulgar curse
word, boy, he just spewed them out all three and
four and every sentence. So obviously, people
didn't get around General Patton unless he called
them. I mean, he didn't want to get his iron. Then I
remember that an officer came in. He had sent for
him. And he was just raving. Gosh, he was chewing
the poor guy up. And what he had done, or not done, he
failed to meet the rendezvous with a tank truck
that was going to refuel his tank. Of course,
that's a cardinal sin because the tank's not worth
it. It can't move. Circumstances doesn't make any
difference. General Patton was saying it didn't
occur. It didn't happen. As far as I'm concerned,
you're the commander. You're at fault because you
didn't make it happen. You should have been there.
You should have been supervised. Train your
people differently. Then after all of that, he
turned. to the other people he's talking to, and
you'd think that he was conducting a Sunday school
class. Just like that, he came from a grower maniac
type of innovation.
And what did he say to these other people when he
turned? I don't know. They were talking about
whatever they were talking before that guy got
there, something about what they were going to do.
I heard him yell, where's that liaison officer
from the 143rd Infantry? Boy, I went over there and
saluted him. Lieutenant Andrews reported, sir.
He says, do you know where your unit is? Of course,
if I didn't know, I wouldn't have told him. Yes,
sir. All right, he says, I want you to go get that
regiment, and I want you to have the lead column at
this road junction. And he gave me the hour. I don't
remember what it was. Can you get them there? And I
said, yes, sir. Well, get going then. So off I went.
And I knew generally where they were if they still
lay. And I found them, gave the commanding officer
the message of what they were supposed to do. And
off we went. We got to the road junction, but by the
time we got there, he had already gone in his
column. And he's been criticized for this because
he was a very wealthy man. Sometimes he didn't even
cash his paycheck or anything. So he took that tank
column through East Texas, off limits, really.
You know, the river. I guess that's the Sabine
River, isn't it, or whatever it is. So as a result,
and how did he do it? He used his own personal funds
to purchase gasoline. He went on ahead and had
somebody arrange for refueling these tanks from
commercial sources. And he went all the way around
to Shreveport and came back, you know, and ended
the maneuver prematurely. And they said, well,
you shouldn't have done that. He said, well,
that's war. You've got to watch. You have to expect
the unexpected. And he says, I just wanted to prove
that what armor can do. And I was never unhappy
because we never caught up with him or not, never to
hear about that. But that was my experience with
Patton. What did you think of him as far as a
military leader? Well...
You take our leaders, which I think are considered
to be among our best, would be Patton, and probably
our best would be Marshall, and yet MacArthur, of
course, Eisenhower. All of them are different.
Probably the one who has all of the qualities,
intelligence, leadership,
intellectual. I already said intelligence, but
really would be Marshall. You know, if you're
looking for the total man. Each of the others have a
little something. Now Patton, I think he was a, he
was a good armored leader. He loved tanks and
gasoline, the smell of it and the grease and all
that sort of thing. He's not a leader in all
situations, that's evident, obvious, when he
struck that soldier, you know.
Mean like that, he wouldn't accept anything. Then
to, yeah, after hitting him, or before hitting
him, yelling about, like, coward, yeller, you
ought to get out there, look at those men there,
they've been wounded fighting, nothing wrong
with you, yeller, coward. And that's when he
struck him. He was a real scholar. He studied. He
researched.
He was a good man to have in Europe. But you couldn't
give him all the gasoline like he wanted and just
let him go wild. So you have to be a team player. But
then you have to be tempered with a great
MacArthur, for example.
I never really
met him or talked to him. I stood beside him one
time.